# Patent : Intelligent Device For Landslide Prediction


In India, a large number of lives are lost and property is destroyed annually due to landslides. About 12.6% of Indian land area is prone to landslides. Landslides mainly occur as a reaction to rain or earthquake. Usually, most landslides have certain geological and physical parameters associated with them. The suggested system targets a certain area to use these parameters to efficiently detect whether a landslide would be occurring within the said area. This system proposes an approach for an automated and intelligent system for early detection and warning for landslide using wireless Zigbee network. It uses the embedded board Arduino Uno based on ATmega328P- 8-bit AVR family microcontroller as an embedded core along with Zigbee for system integration. A collection of sensors are used which measure moisture, rain and acceleration of the soil with respect to the earth. These physical parameters can be subjected to change in accordance with a change in location. A machine learning approach in the form of Artificial Neural Network is implemented to efficiently process the values recorded by the sensors. The neural network checks if the values of sensor cross the threshold values and predicts the severity of the landslide. In case of a possibility of a landslide, the system generates alert in the form of SMS to the administrator. The test results show that the system is completely functional. And this system ensures versatility and good scalability, the traditional monitoring limitations of a function can be overcome which is less efficient and costs are high.
